.2203.05183v2 [quant-ph] 19 apr 2022 arxiv viscosity enhancement by electron-hole collisions in dirac electron fluid weiwei chen!? and w. zhu!:? ‘school of science, westlake university, 18 shilongshan road, hangzhou 310024, china 2 institute of natural sciences, westlake institute for advanced study, 18 shilongshan road, hangzhou 310024, china (dated: april 20, 2022) rejuvenation of hydrodynamic transport in solids provides a new window to study collective motion of elec- trons, where electrons behave like a viscous fluid akin to classical liquids. experimental observations of such exotic states have not been realized until recent years, and an on-going quest is to amplify the hydrodynamic effect in electron fluids. here we investigate the hydrodynamic properties of dirac electron fluid in graphene from a microscopic viewpoint, and elucidate a novel way to enhance electron hydrodynamics. in particular, we present strong evidences that the shear viscosity of dirac electrons can be enhanced by frequent electron-hole collisions, through three distinct aspects: promoting electrons and holes around the dirac point by disorder, creating electron-hole shared zeroth landau level by external magnetic field, and inducing electron-hole excita- tions by dynamic deformation. we also study hall viscosity, which is closely related to the geometric topology and exhibits quantum behavior analogous to hall conductivity. therefore, our work demonstrates the exotic landscape of hydrodynamic electronics in graphene, and presents experimentally relevant responses to quantify the effects of electronic viscosity. i. introduction hydrodynamic behavior of electrons in solids has been pre- dicted for decades', but only in the recent years has it be- come a reality in two-dimensional materials, where many signatures of viscous electron flows have been probed, such as negative local resistance”, superballistic flow**, current vortices’, poiseuille flow!®!!, hall viscosity!? and viola- tion of the wiedemann-franz law!*\'*